Let me start with some good news. I
don't know if you know this, but we are
the first design partner for Codeex.
>> I did know that.
>> Um and uh thank you. And you know, in
the past few months, I think we've hit
an exponential curve. Um AI defense was
a product that we launched over here
last year. In about two weeks or three
weeks, 100% of the code in AI defense
will be written with codeex. It
>> that's unbelievable. Um I
Codex has been my biggest update on AI
in a while. Uh the the app that we
launched yesterday,
it just pushed things over the edge for
me of where it's I'm like, "All right,
this is going to create an unbelievable
amount of economic value extremely
quickly. This is going to change how all
of OpenAI works and change how other
companies work." Um it yeah the model's
really hit some threshold and I think
now the interface and harness has caught
up and
I think this is the first this you're
talking about chatbt moments I think
this is like the first time I felt
another chat GPT moment
>> for
here here is a a clear clear glimpse of
the future of knowledge work and how
enterprises and individual people are
going to use AI to work in a completely
different way. So what's the upper limit
on this do you think? Um
I mean the upper limit I think is like
full AI companies.
There's probably an upper limit beyond
that. The current one I can think about
is full AI companies. And
that seems very powerful. like this. The
idea that a coding model can create a
full complex piece of software but also
interact with the rest of the real world
to build a company around it is a very
big deal.
>> And then this this notion of what's
happening right now, I'm sure you're
tracking this with Moldbook and um what
happened with Cloudbot. Is it just a
passing fad or do you think that there's
something that we should take away from
that on um
>> No, I I think it is definitely not a
passing well mold book maybe. I don't
know but uh open claw is not um I
I think this idea that code is really
powerful but code plus generalized
computer use is even much more powerful
is here to stay. the fact I
when I initially installed Codex, I said
I was never going to give Codex full
control of my computer with without
checking what it was doing. And that
lasted about like two hours because it
was so useful. And then I and then I
kind of got persuaded by people that I
really shouldn't have it running like
that. So now I have two laptops until I
figure out how this is all going to
work. But giving an AI agent full use of
your computer and your web browser with
all your sessions leads to incredible
stuff. And that seems here to stay. The
the the
idea that we can take
a codeex style workflow and expand it to
all knowledge work. Um so that whatever
you're doing codecs can be or what some
version of that can be using your
computer [clears throat]
and using the web for you and editing
documents and
whatever other kind of work you need. um
feels like a genuine transformation in
how knowledge work will happen and that
I think OpenClaw did an incredible job
of
bringing many ideas together to make
that feel usable and real and that seems
certain to be part of our future. I
think moldbook is cool. Uh, and I think
it points to something that will be real
and maybe it will be mold book. Uh, but
there will be new kinds of
social interaction where you have many
agents in a space interacting with each
other on behalf of people. Uh, leading
to all sorts of new things. It's like
you you can imagine a totally new kind
of social network where everybody makes
an agent or many agents and puts them in
there and the agents are talking and
doing stuff and finding them people and
information and collaborating with other
people's agents to come up with new
ideas that I'm sure there will be an
interesting I think the future of social
may look something like that very
different than today whether it's
multiplic or not uncertain
>> sure and so if you think about the
constraints that we are facing today you
know besides the obvious ones the
infrastructure ffstruure and the compute
and the power and all of those pieces.
Are there any non-obvious constraints
that are actually going to that are
holding us back because you know people
always say in the short term you always
overestimate the impact of these
technologies and longer term it's going
to be grossly underestimated but what
what are the non-obvious constraints
that you see right now like you're like
man I wish if I had a magic wand if I
change that. So I think the obvious
constraints are the biggest ones uh
still energy
manufacturing enough hardware all that
kind of stuff. The non-obvious ones that
are most top of mind for me one how are
we going to balance the sort of
security and data access versus the
utility of all of these models.
>> Um I don't think anyone has a great
answer to this yet. I it feels to me
like there is a new kind of security or
data access paradigm that needs to be
invented for this. Um, another is how
are we going to rewrite all software to
be equally usable by humans and AIs?
There's like a bunch of weird quirks
right now about trying to do that with
the way software works.
>> And does that change the architecture of
the software itself where you're going
to optimize it for agents more so than
humans and so it fundamentally changes
how you build software?
>> Yes. And there's like big examples of
that and then there's like dumb examples
of that. So for example, uh I
I would love my agent to be able to use
Slack on my behalf [snorts] because I
hate drowning in Slack and I think it's
like this chaotic mess for me and but
it's important. Uh but the way it works
right now is my agent can use the Slack
web interface and go read all my threads
and do something for me. But then it has
marked a bunch of stuff as red in the
process of doing that and it's broken my
workflows.
>> Broken your workflows. Yeah.
>> So I don't like that's just a silly
example of how software is not like a
lot of software is not quite meant for
an AI and a person to be using it
together. Um maybe we'll want AIs to
like have different
sort of user accounts in some ways using
the same kinds of things. maybe a lot of
software will get rewritten so that it's
primarily or largely used by AI but also
still works for people using it the
oldfashioned way. Um, another kind of
non-obvious block is how like one of the
most powerful things about AI is you
could do this sort of
always on computing where you could have
an AI um listening to your meeting or
watching your meeting and you know
watching what you're doing on your
computer and
uh then just like add a lot of value and
do stuff for you. We don't even our like
existing computer hardware is not really
meant for that. our permissioning system
and how we think about what an AI gets
to see and do stuff with and what it
gets to keep is not really meant for
that. Um, our legal system doesn't
really support that. Well, you'd like to
be able to, you know, record a meeting
and learn something from it and delete
the recording. Uh, so I think there's a
lot of just usability things like that.
And then you know you talk about this
notion of like one of the things that I
find is a huge dichotomy is there's so
much advancement that's happening in
science and in um in all the different
areas that we'll talk about. You know
Kevin Wheel is going to be here later
today. Um and then on the other hand the
kind of challenges that organizations
struggle with to just get the basics up
and running with everyone. there's a
capabilities overhang where you've got
and by the way this is a new concept
when Microsoft Word came out people used
2% of the capability back then right and
so when you start thinking about this
what you know um
how do we make sure that we actually
increase the absorption rate like you've
got CIOS and CISOs over here what advice
would you give them on increasing the
absorption rate within their
organization for for AI
>> yeah you said a bunch of interesting
stuff there the the capability overhang
feels to me like the biggest it has ever
felt. I used to say like a few months
ago maybe I would have said it feels
bigger than any time except right when
CHBT right before CHBT launched. It now
feels even bigger than that even though
people are using AI for a lot of stuff.
Um the fact that AI can make
small but increasingly big scientific
discoveries. The fact that AI can write
full pieces of software, the fact that
soon AI can do more generalized
knowledge work. Um those are all
[snorts] huge huge things like we have
always said that you know we're going to
automate research use that to be able to
automate the economy use that to be able
to deliver incredible new value to
people and share all these benefits and
this whole new technological world. Uh
and we always said that as a sort of
like abstract sometime in the future
thing. And yet now AI is doing research
and AI is able to do huge amounts of
economic work. And
this, as you said, has happened many
times in the past, but living through it
definitely feels like, huh, this is not
quite how it seems like it should go.
The the diffusion, the absorption is so
slow.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> is it slower than you thought it would
be?
>> Yes. But I think I was just naive and
didn't think about it that hard. And in
retrospect and looking at the history,
it shouldn't be surprising. It feels
fast in some ways uh relative to other
things like you know CHBT grew crazily
quickly uh relative to any other piece
of software before um codeex is growing
extremely quickly. I expect the general
purpose computer used knowledge work to
grow quickly and yet
looking at what's capable looking at
what's possible it does feel sort of
surprisingly slow uh in terms of advice
figuring out how to set up enterprises
such that they can quickly absorb these
new tools and not have a year or
multiple years of how are we going to
think about the sort of
data access and security questions that
are currently blocking people even at
the level today of adopting things like
codecs that feels very important and I
don't want to make a too dramatic of a
prediction but I think that companies
that are not set up to be able to adopt
let's call them AI co-workers very
quickly um will be at a huge
disadvantage and it is going to take a
lot of work and some risk to be able to
adopt You know, one of the big insights
we had when we were using codeex was for
the first two or three months, we kept
thinking it was going to be this kind of
amazing tool and then there was this
light bulb that went off with actually
one of your four deployed engineers and
they said, you know, you folks are
thinking about this wrong because you
have to think about it like a teammate
rather than a tool. Um, and that I think
that that level of skuorphic design, I
don't think people have fully groed that
when it comes to this because it's still
a very transactional tool in most
people's minds.
>> It the Codex app is the first time to me
it has truly felt like interacting with
a teammate.
>> Yeah. Um it and I I think like one of
the lessons there is even if you have
amazing technology which the models got
I think 52 was the model that got super
good but even once you get there there's
still so much value in how you package
it how you how you have users interact
with it how easy you can make it but
this it really does to me now feel in a
way that talking to chatbt has always
clearly felt like a tool that I am like
working with a collaborator now.
>> Right. Right. And
that seems very much like the shape of
things to come.
>> Okay. So, let's talk about there's a
couple of topics I want to make sure I
hit with you on infrastructure. Uh,
you've actually spent an enormous amount
of time even on the power side of the
house. Talk to us about what happens
with um in general um the constraints
that we have around power, constraints
we have on infrastructure. How are you
thinking about it? You're clearly
putting enough money behind it.
I guess so. Um,
all the evidence we see right now is
that AI models will continue to get much
more capable and also that they will get
much less expensive and use many fewer
resources per task.
And all of the history we've seen of
every time that happens is people want
to use them much much more. So we are
planning for a world where
AI usage grows at an accelerated pace
each year.
>> Do you think people are underestimating
the capacity that's going to be needed
even now after everything that's being
built out?
>> Like right now they're saying like $5
trillion will be spent in this over the
course of the
>> Yeah, maybe if that really gets spent
quickly uh that will be enough. And I
and I think it's also possible that
along the way we have some supply gluts
temporarily. Um but over a period of
decades it seems certain to me that the
world is going to need a lot more tokens
even though the and we'll make you know
each token way more efficient. you'll
all have a device in your pocket running
super powerful models off of a battery
and what but you know there will still
be this drive for more and more and more
um
I think the world has come to realize
this and capitalism is doing its thing
and supply chains are reconfiguring uh
policy is changing and we are going to
build an incredible amount of
infrastructure now is it enough uh
people always talk about the total
market demand for AI. It feels to me
something like the market demand for
electricity or energy. You can't you
can't talk about that as a general
thing. You can say how much demand there
will be at different price levels. Um
and in this case you can say at
different price levels for different
quality like how smart it is or how fast
it is or everything like things like
that. Um, but
if we continue to make AI really capable
and really cheap, there will be a ton of
demand at some price. If it's more
expensive, there will be uh, you know,
less demand.
But I would like the world to just get
to use a ton of it. Uh, we're in this
capability over now as we mentioned
where people are like, oh, you know, can
use it for chat or maybe some people
understand you can use it for code. I
think this will just be like how we do
stuff, how companies run, how scientific
discovery happens, how we use most
software personally in our lives and
making a lot of it if we can have it at
a reasonable price seems like a very
good bet.
>> Do you worry about um
the fact that the US has not had as much
of a lead on the open source side? Talk
to us a little bit about that. like
>> I do worry about that. Um
>> yeah, I think we should
>> we should do
>> more. Yes.
>> Uh so what's what's stopping you from
doing it?
>> Focus and time. But I think we need to
solve that somehow.
>> And so
just play this out in your simulator for
a second. like if if we if we don't have
um a substantial open source presence
and of course China does versus if we do
how does a world shape differently
to to be clear I think it's most
important that we lead on frontier
models and I expect those to be accessed
via APIs and other products so I it
would be okay but not great if we didn't
also have the open source lead um People
want their own models. People want
control of their own models. Uh people
want to run models locally. Especially
>> if you think about a world where you
have a model that is going to see your
whole life. You're going to have a new
kind of device that's
sort of always on and kind of keeping
track of everything and adds huge value
to you. I at least would really like
that running on inference eye control.
Um and and so I think people are going
to need this. uh you know again if we
get behind obviously it's not the end of
the world but I would really like us to
lead there and I think there will be
increasing demand for locally running
private models
and um if if you were to
fast forward back and start thinking
because one of the things that has been
I don't even know how you folks have
done it within the compression of time
that you've done it in because there
must have been moments where you decide
decided that we're going to go we're
going to go full stack and we're going
to now start building our own inference
ships and we're going to start making
sure that we have data center buildouts
that are happening and it has to have
been a conscious decision when you
started actually going beyond the core
that you had initially started with. Um
talk about the business model that you
you have today and how does that evolve
and change over time? I mean the obvious
ones are of course advertising is a huge
unlock um when that happens but talk
about the business model in general like
what are you happy with the conversion
rates of free to paid are you happy with
the um the the take rate that people are
using this system with?
>> Um and then what would you like to see
more of? So
we have kind of
two large products and now we have some
others that are coming up. We have
chatbt and our API business. Um and now
we have codecs which looks like it's
going to get very big. Uh and a few
other things. The and in the future
we'll have consumer devices and robots
and all sorts of other parts of this
too. Uh people do seem very willing to
pay for AI as a subscription service. Uh
not everybody but a lot of people are
more than we thought would. Um
businesses of course are willing to pay
for things like chach enterprise
>> but even consumers you've reconditioned
the consumers quite a bit like
>> consumers I mean we have I don't know
the exact number off the top of my head
but you know many many tens of millions
of consumers paying a subscription fee.
>> Yeah. Uh and
that was a surprise to me to be honest,
a happy one. Um so that I think can go
further and as we add things like
codeex, people are willing to pay much
much more there. Um advertising for mass
scale consumer businesses does seem like
a good model. Uh although I think we'll
have to be very careful in how we do
that. Uh, and then
businesses increasingly want
something like an AI cloud subscription
>> where they're like, I want to partner
with an AI company. I want you to like
handle security and context linking and
access and I want to be able to run lots
of agents on it. I want like a general
purpose platform there. I want some
agents from you, some agents from other
people. I may even want to run other
people's models. I want a Chach
enterprise license. I want a ton of API
access. uh you know things like that. So
I think there will be a a model there as
well.
>> And and if you were to if you were to
think of um you've had an interesting
model that you've talked about which is
participating in the upside on
scientific discovery as well. Um like if
if you think about the the most mature
ones clearly subscription is very
mature. Clearly advertising is very
mature. At this point in time it's quite
clear that you're going to participate
in both of those.
>> Yeah.
>> And then and then you'll have other ones
that keep keep coming out.
>> Yeah. to to be very clear, we don't want
to take a share of people that are just
like paying us for the API and making
you know discoveries. Like that's great
and that's theirs. Uh I can imagine
though that like if there is a future
where we can spend billions of dollars
on inference and cure an important
disease. Uh
we may explore partnerships there where
we pay for that cost in partnership with
the drug company and then kind of get
some royalty on it. This is not
something we're doing now, but
I think the frontier of scientific
discovery with AI will require so much
capital that maybe we think of ourselves
as an investor in some of those cases.
>> And is is our imagination of the things
that can be done?
Do you find yourself struggling with
like how far exponentially you can think
about what's going on as well or I
you're a pretty big thinker but um it it
seems like there's new ideas emerging
all the time like where where do you
think the imagination shortages right
now with u with the way that these
technologies are evolving? Um,
I can imagine like billions of humanoid
robots building more data centers and
mining for material and building more
power plants and all of that. Um, I can
imagine just the economy growing at an
unprecedented rate as there's all sorts
of
incredible new services and scientific
discoveries happening. Um, I can imagine
the Bonoyman probes launching and then
beyond that, I got no idea.
That seems like a good start. Um, macro
headwinds, tailwinds, what do you what
do you feel like are things that you you
really worry about capitalizing on that
are tailwinds? Uh, because you have a
window within which if you don't then
you can actually lose that tailwind. And
then what are the headwinds that you
worry about? the the tailwind is the
model there's we already have this
capability overhang and the models are
going to get so much better quickly like
I have we've been trying to figure out
how we communicate about what we think
is happening that does not seem like
hype or
um you know crazy but the models are
just going to get
very very good this year and that will
that is a tailwind that I think we can
build incredible things with headwind
wind. Uh
yeah, probably some sort of like global
destabilization, mega supply chain
disruption, something like that.
>> And and on the on the on the tailwind
side on the models getting infinitely
better, do you think in 26 we see a 10x
improvement, a 100x improvement, a 5x
improvement?
>> What do you mean by like a what is a 10x
improvement? Like like
>> things that you can problems you can
solve that you you were
Yeah, I would bet it subjectively feels
something like 10x the end of this year.
Like that's a I don't know how to like
put a exact metric on that.
>> Y,
>> but that feels reasonable.
>> Any question that I didn't ask that I
should have asked?
>> That was a lot. [laughter]
>> No, I feel like we covered a lot of
ground.
>> You're going to come back again?
>> Come back here again? Yeah,
>> I'd love if you invite me. I will.
>> Sam Alton,
>> thank you. [applause]
>> Thanks so much. Thank you.